---
title: A New Beginning
pubDate: 2025-01-13T10:10:12Z
---

If you look at the post history that I brought along here, you can
tell this is not my first attempt at creating a blog and that I have
not been very consistent in writing posts across the years. For most
of my life, I've been self critical of my habit of starting projects
that I leave unfinished, and I had also put those attempts in this
mental bin.

However it's slowly starting to dawn on me, that it doesn't matter. I
have no obligation to finish anything, I don't owe any sort of
consistence or coherent narrative on my writing to the world, or more
precisely, to myself. The world for sure doesn't care, so what is left
is just a very outdated and constraining super ego that doesn't serve
me well.

The act of creation is something that can be enjoyed for the process
itself. And in the end, this is what this is about: learning and self
discovery. As I approach my 40s, what I really would like is to start
digging deeper and deeper for a genuine voice in which to explore the
topics that interest me the most.

# Blogging

I had a few blogs back in the day. I used blogspot, wordpress and even
had a livejournal that I always cringed when thinking about it, as it
became weaponised to have passive agressive fights with my circle of
close friends and my ex-girlfriend. Very disfunctional, but I guess
I'm now far enough removed from it to be able to look at it in a more
self forgiving way, for I was, in fact, just young and stupid.

Once I started working in the software industry, there was also this
persistent idea that I had to create a "coding blog". The cool way was
using static site generators of which Jekyll was king at the time. I
managed to write a few posts with it, lost steam and then I switched
to Hugo in an attempt to rekindle my taste for it through playing with
a new toy. I also spent time trying to find a highly optmised
workflow, as software devs will often do, sometimes to a [wasteful
degree](https://xkcd.com/1205/). 

Or is it waste, really? Maybe it's just me trying to justify my
frequent yak-shaving, but if most of the time spent in my life could
very well be categorized as waste of time by many "productivity"
standards, I say screw productivity. I learned, I had fun.

# This site

Somewhere inbetween those years I developped a deep anxiety about
online interactions. Even posting small innocuous comments could
trigger it and started feeling very heavy emotionally. So I became a
lurker. It was not until very recently that I started feeling like I
wanted to put myself out there again. It started as a drive for
motivating me to learn Trenchbroom, a tool for making Quake maps, by
sharing stuff that I been making. As I started posting on Mastodon and
on my recently created account in Bluesky and getting a few likes, I
got the dopamine hits. The joy of having stuff that you show or say to
people being appreciated somehow.

It's not quite the same to make things in isolation. Sharing what you
do with the world is important. My daughter reminds me of this daily.
She does silly things and asks "Did you see that?". She will say
"Look", and do a little jump that is not at all impressed and be super
happy about it. There's so much out there, that it's easy to feel that
I am irrelevant, that I will never be the best, or even good enough,
so why bother? But showing stuff to other people is not about winning
or them thinking I'm the best. It's for me, it's for the feeling of
self confidence that showing my silly jumps to the world give me.

I also started enjoying interacting with people online again. I think
it was the vibe in Bluesky right when I joined, felt like I got a
second chance at trying out Twitter from scratch and maybe get that
kick that so many people seem to get out of it, but before there was
playing for engagement and weird influencer celebrities writing
"content" and lists of the 45 best AI tools released this week. 

As I started to enjoy this, the urge came back to have a blog. A
webpage. A site. A space in the internet that is mine and where I can
express myself how I choose to.

# Blogging now

I was not happy with the Hugo blog I already had. It didn't care much
for the look of it. There were things that I wanted to fix, ideas that
I had in mind, but I just found that everytime I read the docs for it
I got frustrated. It doesn't click for me, I can't form a mental model
on how things come together and I never really learned it, to be
honest. I just got a theme that I sort of liked, customized a bit of
font colors and that was it. It never sparked joy, Konmari San would
tell me to throw it away.

I tried to get back to it, but again, felt annoying. I tried zola, the
Rust based response to it with a more familiar templating language,
but still. Conceptually it was very similar. I can't wrap my mind
around what taxonomies are meant to be and I don't see how I need them
to make a web page.

Enter [Astro](https://astro.build): I was skeptical of it at first. I
saw it as a Next.js adjacent thing and I'm not super fond of Next as I
had a really bad experience having to maintain an app written with it
at a client. So, I started the tutorial, fully expecting to get
annoyed, but no. The tutorial is barebones, and low in magic. The
magic gets introduced slowly and midway through it, it clicked! As
much as I don't like Next.js, I do love React as an idea, and JSX is
really an amazing way of building UIs. It's easy to think in
components and props, so I felt confident very quickly just running
with it and it was fun! Tailwind was on my list of "things that I
think I would love but didn't have an excuse to try" and the fact that
the integration was so frictionless to install also put me in a place
where I was ready to play with it. Honestly, it's been a while since
web development was this fun. 

Now I have not only a static generated blog in place, but a website
that I actually know how it came to be since I built it. I grasp what
the code is doing in each place, so I can build it further. I can make
pages! I can tweak the theme! I can add fancy modern JavaScript stuff
to play with!

So here's for a new beginning. 

ദ്ദി(˵ •̀ ᴗ - ˵ ) ✧
