---
layout: "../../layouts/MarkdownPostLayout.astro"
title: Ocarina of Time
pubDate: 2012-09-05 14:49
---

I was thinking about happiness yesterday. My main point of anxiety in
the last few weeks — passing on the practical exam to get my driver's
license — is gone. I had a life changing trip depending on that and it
would be a whole extra month of anxiously waiting had I failed it. But
I didn't. At the moment the examiner told me I had passed I was very
happy. My eyes filled with tears and I had to control myself to not
start sobbing in front of the examiner and my driving instructor. I
called my family, told the news and I couldn't stop smiling the whole
day. The weight was gone from my shoulders and I could finally have
peace of mind again and relax waiting for the trip.

When something happy like this happens, it gives you this jolt and
then leaves a transitory sensation. It has been about a week after the
fact and I realized it's completely gone. I'm not happy for passing
the test anymore. I think about it and I can clearly recognize it's a
great thing that I did and I can appreciate all the good consequences
of it. But I'm not happy for it anymore.

While I wondered about the why the happy feelings from positive events
can't be lasting, I started thinking about another recent rewarding
experience, namely _The Legend of Zelda: Ocarina of Time 3D_.

---

I consider myself a Zelda fan. While I'm not the fanatic collector
kind of fan, I remember clearly the sensation when I first played _A
Link to the Past_. I had a Megavision at the time — a cheap knockoff
of the Sega Mega Drive, a.k.a. Genesis — and I played the game at the
house of a friend that had a SNES. I've begged that he lent me the
console for a weekend with the cartridge, which he did. After that, I
spent the whole weekend playing, barely stopping for eating, sleeping,
and going to the restroom. I don't know why that game was so appealing
to me, but I just felt linked to it, it just made sense.

Some years later I went to some other friend's place and played
_Ocarina of Time_ for the first time. It was ridiculous. I remember at
the time how truly 3D it was. The levels were designed in 3D, as
opposed to the 3D rendition of 2D gameplay a lot of games of the time
had. For a long time I had this longing sensation about the game. I
would sleep thinking about it sometimes and dream that I got a N64 and
I could play it. Then my birthday came. My mom and my stepfather
manage to get a good deal to buy the N64 used — it was very expensive
for us at the time — from the same friend that showed me the game for
the first time. I had to play it immediately. When I turned on the
console I've seen the 3 save slots of the game, with the names filled
like this:

> Feliz  
> Aniversario  
> KAO
>
> _(which means: 'Happy Birthday, Kao')_

I couldn't make myself erase it, so I just started the game on the
_KAO_ slot. I spent hours running around _Hyrule_, killing monsters,
finding secrets, solving puzzles, and even fishing.

Which gets us to now, about a year after I bought my Nintendo 3DS in
San Francisco with the new glasses free 3D rendition of the game. I've
picked up the game again recently and continued from Jabu-Jabu's
Belly, the dungeon where I stopped the other time, and I'm just past
the Temple of Fire. I've got to say: I'm surprised by how much this
game still delights me. I've dismissed the game for a while on the
basis that I bought it from nostalgia and I would play again sometime
just for the memories, but then, when I finally picked it up again, I
got hooked again.

---

This game is an experience that only games can give. The plot by it
self is rather silly and as deep as a puddle and I would probably hate
to watch a feature film or animation that closely followed it. It's
living the story that makes the difference. The story is told by the
exploration, by the secrets you find, the puzzles you solve. You
wouldn't read a book about it, but experiencing it is meaningful. It's
not meant to be literary, it's a different language, a language that's
made of interaction and feedback. Collecting new items is meaningful
because they give you new means of interaction, new verbs to talk in
the language of the game. Collecting the Spiritual Stones and the
Sage's medallions becomes meaningful when you know the hardships you
had to endure to acquire it — swarms of enemies, challenging bosses,
mind-bending puzzles; all interactive experiences.

The progression of the game is amazing. You start powerless and
unarmed, then slowly and steadily, you grow into this powerful and
resourceful hero. Each new item is a thrill, an invitation to new
explorations, to find which limits you can now transpose with your new
gained skills. Finding this weird place and realizing you've got this
instinct that tells you that there's got to be something hidden in
there. Then you pull out your Ocarina, play the Song of the Storms and
a secret unveils.

Everything that you see in the game is serving game design. While the
plot might be shallow as a story, it's tied so tightly to the game and
to the experience that the deepness of game play enhances the plot.
Characters you meet are rarely insignificant. Most of them serve a
purpose one time or another through side-quests and tips about the
game itself.

---

I see a lot of the mainstream games that try to look like movies, try
to tell deeper stories, try to simulate real life sports with the
maximum fidelity possible, and that's fine. But my deepest love for
video-games lies in games like _Ocarina of Time_. A game that talks to
you through simpler graphics and sounds, simpler plot, less realism,
but tied together with such a masterful design that the result ends up
being greater than anything else.

_I love video-games_ is too broad of a sentence nowadays. The part of
the universe of video games that I do love is represented by the likes
of _Ocarina of Time_.
